ARTICLE XXVII
                             RIGHT OF SET-OFF                                    -- -~
    Section 1.      Set-Off Calculation.
              (a) When a Team terminates a Player Contract in circum-
    stances where such Team, following the termination, continues to be
    liable for the compensation called for by such Contract (including any
    Deferred Compensation), the Team's liability for such compensation
    shall be reduced pro rata by any amounts earned by the player (for
    services as a player) from any professional basketball team during the
    period covered by the terminated Contract (including, but not limited
    to, amounts earned but not paid during such period); provided, how-
    ever, that such reduction in liability shall not be more than 50\% of that
    portion of the player's compensation from the new team which is in
    excess of the Minimum Player Salary applicable at the time of termi-
    nation.
              (b) For the purposes of this Article, a "professional basket-_         c
    ball team" shall mean any team in any country that pays money or
    compensation of any kind (in excess of a stipend for living expenses)
    to a basketball player for rendering services to such team.
    Section 2.      Successive Terminations.
              In the event of successive terminations by NBA Teams of
    Player Contracts involving the same Player, the Team first to termi-
    nate shall be entitled to the right of set-off provided for by this Article
    until its compensation liability has been eliminated in its entirety, and
    the right of set-off shall then pass in order to the Team(s) terminating
    any subsequent Contract(s).
                                                                                I._  J'
                                                                                 _ J155
Section 3.     Deferred Compensation.
         In calculating the amount of set-off to which a Team may be
entitled pursuant to this Article, Deferred Compensation payable to a
player for or with respect to a period covered by the terminated Con-
tract shall be discounted on an annual basis by a percentage equal to
the prime rate as set by Citibank, N.A. and in effect at the time the
agreement providing for such Deferred Compensation was made.