ARTICLE XII
                             OPTION CLAUSES                                 -  -~
    Section 1.     Team Options.
                                                                               -:-:
             A Player Contract shall not contain any option in favor of
    the Team, except an Option (as defined in Article I, Section l(ag))
    that: (i) is specifically negotiated between a Veteran or a Rookie
    (other than a First Round Pick) and a Team; (ii) authorizes the ex-
    tension of such Contract for no more than one year beyond the
    stated term; (iii) is exercisable only once; and (iv) provides that the
    Salary payable with respect to the option year is no less than 100\%
    of the Salary payable with respect to the last year of the stated term
    of such Contract and that all other non-monetary terms applicable
    in the last year of the stated term of such Contract shall be appli-
    cable in the option year.
    Section 2.     Player Options.
             A Player Contract shall not contain any option in favor of
    the player, except:
             (a) an Option that: (i) is specifically negotiated between a
    Veteran or a Rookie (other than a First Round Pick) and a Team;
    (ii) authorizes the extension of such Contract for no more than one
    year beyond the stated term; (iii) is exercisable only once; and
    (iv) provides that the Salary payable with respect to the option year
    is no less than 100\% of the Salary payable with respect to the last
    year of the stated term of such Contract and that all other non-
    monetary terms applicable in the last year of the stated term of
    such Contract shall be applicable in the option year; and/or
             (b) an Early Termination Option (or "ETO") (as defined in
    Article I, Section l(r)), provided that such ETO is exercisable only
    once and takes effect no earlier than the end of the third year of the
    Contract. A Contract that does not provide for an ETO when signed
    may not be amended to provide for an ETO during the original
                                                                            ~ ... J109
term of the Contract. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a
Team and a player may enter into an Extension that contains an
ETO, provided that such ETO takes effect no earlier than three years
from the date the Extension is signed or the conclusion of the origi-
nal term of the Contract, whichever is later. A Contract (including
an Extension) that contains an ETO must specify either the Effec-
tive Date of the ETO or that the Effective Date is contingent; pro-
vided, however, that the only allowable contingency shall be whether
the player or Team meets performance benchmarks designated at
the time the Contract is signed.
Section 3.     Exercise Period.
         Any Option or Early Termination Option must be exercised
prior to the July 1 immediately prior to the Season covered by the
option.
Section 4.     Option Buy-Outs.
         Subject to the rules set forth in Article VII, a Player Con-
tract that contains an Option or an Early Termination Option may
provide for an Option Buy-OutAmount; provided, however, that in
no event mayan Option Buy-Out Amount exceed, in the case of an
Option, 50\% of the Salary called for in the option year or, in the
case of an ETO, 50\% of the Salary in the first Season following the
Effective Date of the ETO.110                                                                          --~
                                                                                ::
                              ARTICLE XIII                                    -
                             CIRCUMVENTION
    Section 1.     General Prohibition.
            (a) It is the intention ofthe parties that the provisions agreed
    to herein, including, without limitation, the rules relating to the
    Salary Cap, the Exceptions to the Salary Cap, and the free agency
    provisions, be interpreted so as to preserve the essential benefits
    achieved by both parties to this Agreement. Neither the parties
    hereto, nor any Team (or Team Affiliate) or player (or person act-
    ing with authority on behalf of such player), shall enter into any
    agreement, including, without limitation, any Player Contract (in-
    cluding any Renegotiation, Extension, or amendment of a Player
    Contract), or undertake any action or transaction, including, with-
    out limitation, the assignment or termination of a Player Contract,
    which includes any terms that are designed to serve the purpose of
    defeating or circumventing the intention of the parties as reflected
    by all of the provisions of this Agreement.
            (b) It shall constitute a violation of subsection (a) above
    for a Team to enter into an agreement or understanding with any
    sponsor or business partner or third party under which such spon-
    sor, business partner or third party pays compensation for basket-
    ball services (even if such compensation is ostensibly designated
    as being for non-basketball services) to a player under Contract to
    the Team. Such an agreement with a sponsor or business partner
    may be inferred where: (i) such compensation from the sponsor or
    business partner is substantially in excess of the fair market value
    of any services to be rendered by the player for such sponsor or
    business partner; and (ii) the compensation in the Player Contract
    between the player and the Team is substantially below the fair
    market value of such Contract.
                                                                             _.  ~j111
Section 2.      No Undisclosed Agreements.
         (a) At no time shall there be any undisclosed agreements
of any kind, express or implied, oral or written, or promises, un-
dertakings, representations, commitments, inducements, assurances
of intent, or understandings of any kind, between a player (or any
person acting with authority on behalf of such player) and any Team
(or Team Affiliate):
             (i) involving consideration of any kind to be paid, fur-
    nished or made available to the player, or any person or entity
    controlled by or related to the player, by the Team or Team
    Affiliate either during the term of the Player Contract or there-
    after; or
             (ii) concerning any future Renegotiation, Extension, or
    amendment of an existing Player Contract, or entry into a new
    Player Contract.
         (b) At the time of the assignment of any Player Contract,
there shall be no undisclosed agreements of any kind, express or
implied, oral or written, or promises, undertakings, representations,
commitments, inducements, assurances of intent, or understand-
ings of any kind,between the player whose Player Contract has
been assigned (or any person acting with authority on behalf of
such player) and any Team (or Team Affiliate), concerning any fu-
ture Renegotiation, Extension, or amendment of the Player Con-
tract that has been assigned or the entry into any new Player Con-
tract.
Section 3.      Penalties.
         (a) Upon a finding of a violation of Section 1 above by the
System Arbitrator, but only following the conclusion of any appeal
to the Appeals Panel, the Commissioner shali be authorized to:(i) impose a fine of up to \$2,000,000 (50\% of which
        shall be payable to the NBA, and 50\% of which shall be pay-
        able to the NBPA-Selected Charitable Organization) on any
        Team found to have committed such violation;
                 (ii) direct the forfeiture of one first round draft pick;
        and/or
                 (iii) void any Player Contract, or any Renegotiation,
        Extension, or amendment of a Player Contract, between any
        player and any Team that are both found to have committed
        such violation.
             (b) Upon a finding of a violation of Section 2 above by the
    System Arbitrator, but only following the conclusion of any appeal
    to the Appeals Panel, the Commissioner shall be authorized to:
                 (i) impose a fine of up to \$5,000,000 (50\% of which
         shall be payable to the NBA, and 50\% of which shall be pay-
        able to the NBPA-Selected Charitable Organization) on any
        Team found to have committed such violation;
                 (ii) direct the forfeiture of draft picks;
                 (iii) void any Player Contract, or any Renegotiation,
        Extension, or amendment of a Player Contract, between any
        player and any Team that are both found to have committed
         such violation; and/or
                 (iv) suspend for up to one year any Team personnel
        found to have willfully engaged in such violation.
             (c) If the System Arbitrator finds that a player agent has
    willfully committed a violation of Section 1 or 2 above, and such
    finding, if appealed, is affirmed by the Appeals Panel, such finding
    shall be referred to the Players Association's Committee on Agent
    Regulation for such disciplinary action as the Committee deems
    appropriate. The Committee shall accept as binding and conclu-
    sive the findings of the System Arbitrator (or, in the case of an
    appeal, the Appeals Panel) that a violation of Section 1 or 2 has      J113
occurred. In addition, the NBA reserves any and all rights it may
have to take such action and/or assert such claims as may be avail-
able to it against a player agent found to have violated Section 1 or
2. The Players Association reserves any and all rights it may have
to oppose any action taken or claims asserted by the NBA against a
player agent found to have violated Section 1 or 2, including any
and all rights it may have to contest the authority of the NBA to
take such action.
Section 4.     Production of Tax Materials.
         In any proceeding to enforce Section 1 or 2 above, the Sys-
tem Arbitrator shall have the authority, upon good cause shown, to
direct any Team, Team Affiliate, or player to produce any tax re-
turns or other relevant tax materials disclosing income figures for
the player (non-income figures may be redacted), or disclosing
expense figures by the Team or Team Affiliate (non-expense fig-
ures may be redacted), which materials shall not be released to the
general public or the media and shall be treated as strictly confi-
dentialby all parties.
Section 5.     Valuation Procedures.
         (a) Any transaction (other than a player appearance called
for by the Uniform Player Contract or Group License Agreement)
between a player and a Team and/or Team Affiliate after the date of
this Agreement that (i) is described as not involving playing ser-
vices, and (ii) in which the player receives compensation or is be-
ing provided with an investment opportunity, shall be disclosed in
writing to the League Office and the Players Association prior to
or within five business days after the entering into of the transac-
tion. The NBA shall have ten days after such disclosure in which
to challenge the transaction, pursuant to the procedures set forth in
subsection (c) below, on the ground that: (i) the compensation to
the player is greater than a reasonable approximation of the fair
market value of the non-basketball services or other consideration
provided by the player in the transaction; (ii) the amount of theplayer's investment is not commercially reasonable, given the rela-
    tive risks and rewards of such investment; or (iii) the consideration
    paid to the player for performing basketball services represents less
    than a reasonable approximation of the fair market value of such
    player's basketball services.
             (b) If a Team or Team Affiliate enters into a transaction
    after the date of this Agreement with a retired player who played
    for the Team within the past five years, in which the retired player
    is being compensated in excess of \$10,000 or is being provided
    with an investment opportunity, and if the compensation the re-
    tired player received from the Team when he was a player was sub-
    stantially below the then fair market value for his services, then the
    NBA may challenge the transaction, pursuant to the procedures set
    forth in subsection (c) below, on the ground that: (i) the compensa-
    tion to the player substantially exceeds the fair market value of the
    services or other consideration provided by the retired player in
    the business transaction; or (ii) the amount of the player's invest-
    ment is not commercially reasonable, given the relative risks and
    rewards of such investment.
             (c) (i) Any challenge under this Section 5 shall be filed in
         writing with a business valuation expert jointly selected by the
         NBA and the Players Association, who shall render a decision
         within fifteen days after the filing of the challenge. The busi-
        ness valuation expert shall conduct a hearing in which the player
         or retired player, the Team and/or Team Affiliate, the Players
        Association, and the NBA are afforded the opportunity to ap-
         pear and participate. The NBA shall have the burden of proof
         in the proceeding. The business valuation expert may permit
         discovery of relevant documents necessary to undertake the
        valuation. Within ten days of any decision by the business valu-
         ation expert, any of the parties may file an appeal with the Sys-
         tem Arbitrator, who shall conduct a hearing and render a deci-
         sion within twenty days of the filing of the appeal. There shall
         be no right of further appeal to the Appeals Panel.
                                                                            ~!
                                                                           j(ii) If the NBA prevails in its challenge under this Sec-
tion 5, the player or retired player and the Team and/or Team
Affiliate shall have fifteen days after the date of such determi-
nation (or the date of the conclusion of any appeal) in which to
renegotiate or terminate: (x) the business transaction, if all
parties to the transaction so agree; and (y) in the case of a chal-
lenge under Section 5(a), any Player Contract entered into con-
temporaneously with such transaction, without regard to any
time limitations in this Agreement applicable to Renegotiations.
If the player or retired player and the Team and/or Team Affili-
ate do not renegotiate or terminate the business transaction or
Player Contract by the conclusion of such fifteen-day period,
then, at that time: (xx) in the case of a challenge under Section
5(a), the consideration received by the player, or the value of
the investment opportunity (net of any contribution by the
player), in each case as determined by the business valuation
expert or the System Arbitrator, as the case may be, shall be
included in the player's Salary, subject to the Team's Room
and other Salary Cap rules, and further subject to any alloca-
tion over time that the business valuation expert or System Ar-
bitrator determines is appropriate; and (yy) in the case of a
challenge under Section 5(b), the difference between (A) the
compensation received by the retired player, or the value of the
investment opportunity received by the retired player (net of
any contribution by the retired player), and (B) a reasonable
estimate of the fair market value of the services or other con-
sideration provided by the retired player, or a reasonable esti-
mate of the fair market value of the investment opportunity, in
each case as determined by the business valuation expert or the
System Arbitrator, as the case may be, shall be included in the
Team's Team Salary, subject to the Team's Room and other
Salary Cap rules, and further subject to any allocation over time
that the business valuation expert or System Arbitrator deter-
mines is appropriate.
         (iii) If the NBA prevails in its challenge under this
Section 5, and the player or retired player and the Team and/orTeam Affiliate renegotiate or terminate the business transac-
        tion or Player Contract, any revised terms of the transaction or
        Player Contract shall be promptly disclosed to the NBA and
        the Players Association, and may, at the request of the NBA, be
        re-subjected to the procedures of this subsection (c).
            (d) Any information disclosed to the League Office and
    the Players Association pursuant to the procedures of this Sec-
    tion 5 shall be treated strictly confidential, and shall not be re-
    leased to the general public or the media.
    Section 6.    Other Undertakings.
            (a) No Team shall have a financial arrangement with or
    offer a financial inducement to any player (not including retired
    players) not signed to a current Player Contract.
             (b) Prior to the assignment of any Player Contract, the Team
    from which such Player Contract is to be assigned and the player
    whose Player Contract is to be assigned shall be required to divest
    themselves, on terms mutually agreeable to the player and the Team,
    of any pre-existing financial arrangements between such Team and
    such player. The foregoing shall not apply to Deferred Compensa-
    tion obligations and loans.
            (c) Nothing contained in subsections (a) and (b) above shall
    interfere with a Team's obligation to pay a player Deferred Com-
                                                                          (
    pensation earned under a prior Player Contract.