ARTICLE IV
                             BENEFITS
Section 1.     Player Benefits.
        Except as set forth below, effective with the 1995-1996 NBA
Season, and continuing for the term of this Agreement, the NBA
shall provide the following benefits to NBA players and, in the
case of Sections (a) and (f) below, former NBA players:
        (a) (1) Subject to the provisions of Section (a)(3) below,
    League-wide pension benefits in accordance with the terms of
    the National Basketball Association Players' Pension Plan, as
    restated effective February 2, 1989 (the "Plan"). Beginning
    with the 1996-97 Season, the Plan will, subject to the approval
    of the Internal Revenue Service, be amended to provide for the
    following changes which shall be effective only throughout the
    period of this Agreement:
                 (i) The "Normal Retirement Pension" payable to a
    player under the Plan shall be increased to the maximum
    monthly amount permitted by the applicable benefit limitations
    under the Internal Revenue Code to be paid to the player at his
    "Normal Retirement Date" under the Plan (the "Maximum
    Monthly Benefit"). For purposes of the preceding sentence,
    the applicable benefit limitations shall be the limitations in ef-
    fect for the year in which this Agreement is executed. Not-
    withstanding the foregoing:
                     (A) The benefits payable under the Plan shall
    at all times be subject to the limitations on benefits under the
    Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code").
                     (B) If all or any portion of the actuarially de-
    termined contributions to be made to the Plan will not be fully
    deductible under the Code when paid, the Maximum Monthly
    Benefit shall not exceed the amount which would result in all
    of such contributions being fully deductible when paid. The-- -~
30                                                                        -;1
                                                                          ~i
   parties agree that the determinations described in the preced-
   ing sentence, including any actuarial assumptions and projec-
   tions related thereto, shall be made by the current actuaries of
   the Plan and any such determinations shall be binding and con-
   clusive.
                     (C) Except as otherwise provided herein, the
   Maximum Monthly Benefit shall, effective as of the beginning
   of a Plan Year of the Plan, be adjusted for increases in the cost
   of living in the same manner as the cost of living adjustment
   for the dollar limitation under section 415(b)(I)(A) ofthe Code.
   In no event, however, shall the adjusted Maximum Monthly
   Benefit for a Plan Year exceed an amount that would require
   the actuarially determined contributions to be made to the Plan
   to fund for such adjusted Benefit for the Plan Year to exceed
   the actuarially determined contributions made to the Plan to
   fund for the Maximum Monthly Benefit in effect for the imme-
   diately preceding Plan Year by more than five (5) percent. The
   parties agree that the determinations described in the preced-
   ing sentence, including any actuarial assumptions and projec-
   tions related thereto, shall be made by the current actuaries of
   the Plan and any such determinations shall be binding and con-
   clusive.
                     (D) The applicable provisions of this Sec-
   tion I(a) shall apply only to those players who had not yet be-
   gun to receive a benefit under the Plan as of July I, 1996 and to
   those players who were receiving monthly benefits under the
   Plan as of September I, 1996; provided, however, that in the
   case of those players who were receiving monthly benefits un-
   der the Plan as of September I, 1996, this section I(a) shall
   apply only with respect to benefit payments to be made on or
   after September I, 1996 and shall not require the recalculation
   of benefit payments made prior to such date.
                (ii) The actuarial reduction for the "Qualified Joint
   and Survivor Annuity" (as defined under section 1.29 of the
   Plan) for married players and their spouses currently provided31
under section 3.10 of the Plan shall be eliminated. The preced-
ing sentence shall apply only with respect to benefit payments
commencing on or after September 1, 1996 in the form of a
Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity and, in the case of a player
receiving monthly benefit payments under the Plan as of Sep-
tember 1, 1996, only if such benefit payments are currently
being made in the form of a Qualified Joint and Survivor An-
nuity.
             (iii) The "Normal Retirement Benefit" payable to
a Pre-1965 Player under Article XX of the Plan shall be in-
creased to \$200 per month for each "Year of Pre-1965 Credited
Service"; provided, however, that the benefits payable under
the Plan to Pre-1965 Players shall at all times be subject to the
limitations on benefits under the Code. The benefit to be
paid in accordance with the preceding sentence shall apply
only with respect to benefit payments to be made on or af-
ter September 1, 1996 and shall not require the recalcula-
tion of benefit payments made prior to such date.
         (2) Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement:
(i) if any change or amendment made to the Code, or the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
("ERISA"), or to any regulations (whether final, temporary or
proposed regulations) or rulings issued thereunder; or (ii) if
any interpretation, application or enforcement (or any proposed
interpretation, application or enforcement), by a court of com-
petent jurisdiction in the United States or by the Internal Rev-
enue Service, of the Code, ERISA, or any regulations or rul-
ings issued thereunder; or (iii) if any regulations (whether fi-
nal, temporary or proposed regulations) or rulings issued by
the Internal Revenue Service under the Code or ERISA; or
(iv) if any provisions of this Agreement, including any of the
amendments or benefit increases to be provided under the Plan
pursuant to this Section, would result in the Plan no longer be-
ing a tax-qualified Plan under section 401(a) of the Code, or
would require NBA Teams to incur costs over and above any
costs required to be incurred to implement the provisions of-1
32
                                                                             1
   this Agreement or any prior collective bargaining agreement               . 1
   in order for the Plan to maintain its tax-qualified status un-
   der section 401(a) of the Code (provided, however, that such
   additional costs are incurred solely in connection with the pro-
   vision of pension benefits to their non-player employees or to
   non-player employees of affiliates (within the meaning of sec-
   tions 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code) of such Teams), then any
   obligation to maintain and/or make contributions to the Plan
   pursuant to this Agreement or pursuant to any prior collective
   bargaining agreement shall terminate; provided, however, that
   any such termination shall not impair the legally binding effect
   of any other provision of this Agreement or any prior collective
   bargaining agreement, nor shall it create any right (x) to uni-     I
                                                                          r
                                                                             :::!
                                                                               ::
   laterally implement during the term ofthisAgreement any terms             j
   concerning the provisions of pension benefits to the players,
   (y) to lockout, or (z) to strike. In the event of such termination,
                                                                             j
   the NBA Teams shall provide alternative benefits to the play-
   ers, at an annual cost (as determined on an after-tax basis) to
   NBA Teams equal to the annual cost that such Teams would              -   j
   have incurred under the Plan commencing on the date oftermi-
   nation. The NBA and the Players Association shall agree upon
   the type(s) of alternative benefits to be provided.
            (3) Players employed by Toronto and Vancouver ("Ca-
   nadian players") shall receive pension benefits of comparable
   value by means of the Plan and separate pension plans to be
   established and maintained by Toronto and Vancouver ("Sepa-
   rate Plans"); provided, however, that (i) if the provision of pen-
   sion benefits under the Plan to the Canadian players would, at
   any time, result in the Plan being subject to Canadian Provin-
   cial Pension Legislation and/or Canadian Federal Tax Laws (to
   the extent that the application of such tax laws would result in
   adverse tax consequences to the Plan, the NBA Members and/
   or the Canadian players), and/or (ii) ifthe Separate Plans would
   not, upon their establishment or at any future time, either sat-
   isfy U.S. tax qualification requirements or be able to be regis-
   tered under Canadian Provincial Pension Legislation and/or          !___  jCanadian Federal Tax Laws, then any obligation to establish,
     maintain and/or make contributions to both the Plan with re-
     spect to Canadian players and the Separate Plans pursuant to
     this Agreement or pursuant to any prior collective bargaining
     agreement shall terminate. In the event of such termination,
     Toronto and Vancouver shall provide alternative benefits to the
     Canadian players at an annual cost (as determined on an after-
     tax basis) to Toronto and Vancouver equal to the annual cost
     that Toronto and Vancouver would have incurred under the Plan
     and t~e Separate Plans commencing on the date of termination.
     The NBA and the Players Association shall agree upon the
     type(s) of alternative benefits to be provided.
          (b) Life insurance and accidental death and dismember-
ment benefits, as set forth in the Prudential Insurance Company
Policy No. GRP31300 GEN AS5-102 (the "Prudential Policy")
(which benefits were in effect for the 1995-96 Season).
          (c) Disability insurance benefits, as set forth in the Boston
Mutual Life Insurance Co., Policy No. G-LTD-12381 (which ben-
efits were in effect for the 1995-96 Season).
          (d) Workers' compensation benefits, in accordance with
applicable statutes.
          (e) Medical and Dental insurance benefits for the 1995-96
Season, in accordance with the terms of the Prudential Policy.
Beginning with the 1996-97 Season and continuing for the term of
this Agreement, the benefits provided under such policy shall be
modified only to the following extent:
              (1) Subject to deductibles, the Prudential Policy
     shall cover 80\% of the first \$5,000, and 100\% thereafter, of
     qualifying expenses (as defined in the Prudential Policy)
     for each player and his eligible dependents in each year;
     provided, however, that the maximum co-insurance obliga-
     tion per family per year shall not exceed \$3,000.I    ..,'
                                                                           :!
                (2) Each player shall pay an annual deductible of \$300 I    ~
                                                                             "
       for himself and each family member; provided, however, that
       no further deductible obligation shall be required for any fam-
       ily member in any plan year in which a deductible of \$300 has
       been paid for each of three family members.
           (f) League-wide severance in the amount of up to \$775,000
   for the 1995-96 Season and \$600,000 for each of the 1996-97 and
   1997 -98 Seasons, it being agreed and understood by the parties
   that the distribution and amounts of severance payments to indi-
   vidual players (or former players) shall remain the responsibility
   of the Players Association and that, regardless of the bases upon
   which the Players Association elects to make such distributions,
   the NBA's liability for severance shall not exceed the amounts set
   forth in this paragraph.
           (g) Funding for the activities of the Joint Labor Manage-
   ment Committee in the amount of \$1.2 million for the 1995-96
   Season and \$1.5 million for the 1996-97 Season.
            (h) Funding for an HIV/ AIDS education program through
   the 1998-99 season in accordance with the terms of the agreement
   between Mosaic Health Inc. and the National Basketball Players
   Association dated November 7, 1995 (the "Mosaic Agreement").
   For the 1999-2000 and 2000-01 Seasons, the parties shall agree
   upon a continued or new education program(s) for players, to be
   funded in the 1999-2000 and 2000-01 Seasons in aggregate amounts
   equal to 105\% and 110\%, respectively, ofthe average ofthe amounts
   paid under the Mosaic Agreement for the 1996-97 through 1998-
   99 seasons.
            (i) Funding for the annual Players Association High School
   Basketball Camp (or any substitute program mutually agreed upon
   by the parties) in the amount of \$175,000 for the 1995-96 Season,
   increasing by 10\% per year thereafter.
                                                                         _ .J
            U) Player Playoff Pool amounts, as follows:
            1995-96 Season -     \$7.0 million
                                                                              ~i
                                                                         - j1996-97 Season -    \$7.0 million
         1997-98 Season -    \$7.0 million
         1998-99 Season -    \$7.5 million
         1999-2000 Season -    \$7.5 million
         2000-2001 Season -    \$7.5 million
         If the NBA increases the number of Teams participating in
the playoffs, the Player Playoff Pool shall be increased by \$437,500
for each Team added with respect to the 1995-96 through 1997-98
Seasons and by \$468,750 for each Team added with respect to the
1998-99 through 2000-01 Seasons. The NBA will consult with the
Players Association with respect to the method of allocation of the
Player Playoff Pool.
         (k) The employer's portion of payroll taxes; and
         (1) The Players Association's one-half share ofthe payment
of fees and expenses to the Accountants in connection with any
audit conducted under this Agreement.
Section 2.      Projected Benefits.
         (a) For purposes of computing the Salary Cap and Mini-
mum Team Salary in accordance with Article VII, "Projected Ben-
efits" shall mean the projected amounts to be paid or accrued by
the NBA or the Teams, other than the Expansion Teams during their
first two Seasons, for the upcoming Season with respect to the Ben-
efits to be provided for such Season. In the event that the amount
of any benefit for the upcoming Season is not reasonably calcu-
lable, then, for purposes of computing Projected Benefits, such
amount shall be projected to be 108\% of the amount expended for
the same benefit for the prior Season.
         (b) The determination of Projected Benefits shall be made
by mutual agreement of the parties no later than August 1 preced-
ing each Season of this Agreement, beginning with the 1996-Season. In the event that the parties are unable to agree upon Pro-
   jected Benefits by such date, the determination shall be made by
   the Accountants, whose decision will be final and unappealable.
   Section 3.    Insurance Carriers.
           At any time during the term of this Agreement, the NBA
   may change the carrier of any of the foregoing insurance programs,
   subject to the Players Association's prior written approval, which
   approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. In no event shall any
   change in insurance carrier result in a change in the types or levels
   of any of the Benefits provided for above.
                                                                         ,_ 0"