ARTICLE XVIII
               TRAVEL ACCOMMODATIONS, LOCKER
                  ROOM FACILITIES. AND PARKING
    Section 1.      Hotel Arrangements.
             Each Team agrees to use its best efforts to make the fol-
    lowing arrangements for its players while they are "on the road":
             (a) To have their baggage picked up by porters.
             (b) To have them stay in first class hotels.
             (c) To have extra-long beds available to them in each
    hotel.
             If there is a finding that a Team has committed a willful
    violation of this provision, the NBA shall impose a \$1,000 fine on
    such Team.
    Section 2.     First Class Travel.
             (a) Each Team shall provide first class travel accommoda-
    tions on all trips in excess of one hour, except when such accom-
    modations are not available; provided, however, that a Team's head
    coach may fly first class in place of a player when eight or more
    first class seats are provided to players. In the event a Team's head
    coach flies first class in place of a player, one player, designated
    by the Players Association, shall be paid the difference between
    the amount paid by such Team for a first class seat on the flight
    involved and the cost of the seat purchased for such designated
    player on that flight.
             (b) If there is a finding that a Team has committed a will-
    ful violation of this Section, the NBA shall impose a \$1,000 fine
    on such Team.
                                                                            '.'
                                                                          - j133
Section 3.    Locker Room Facilities.
        Each Team agrees to use its best efforts to provide suitable
locker room facilities and to stabilize the temperature in locker
rooms to make it consistent with the temperature on playing courts.
Section 4.    Parking Facilities.
        Each Team agrees to make parking facilities available to
its players without charge in connection with games and practices
conducted at the facility regularly used by such Team for home
games and/or practices., - --;j
                             ARTICLE XIX                                   ,     ')
             UNION SECURITY, DUES AND CHECK-OFF
    Section 1.     Membership.
             As a condition of employment commencing with the ex-
    ecution of this Agreement, for the duration of this Agreement only,
    and wherever legal: (a) any active player who is or later becomes a
    member in good standing of the Players Association must maintain
    his membership in good standing in the Players Association; and
    (b) any active player (including a player in the future) who is not a
    member in good standing of the Players Association must, on the
    30th day following the beginning of his employment or the 30th
    day following the execution of this Agreement, whichever is later,
    pay, pursuant to Section 2 below or otherwise, to the Players Asso-
    ciation an annual service fee in the same amount as any initiation
    fee and dues required of members of the Players Association.
    Section 2.     Check-off.
             Commencing with the execution of this Agreement and for
    the duration of this Agreement only, each Team will check-off the
    initiation fee and annual dues, assessments or service fees, as the
    case may be, ~ weekly'installments from the first four regu-
    li!LSeasQD~check~ for each player for whom a current check-
    off authorization has been provided to the Team. The Team will
    forward the check-off monies to the Players Association within
    fourteen (14) days of each check-off.
    Section 3.     Enforcement.
             (a) Upon written notification to the NBA by the Players
    Association that a player has not paid any initiation fee, dues or the
    equivalent service fee in violation of Section 1 of this Article XIX,
    the NBA will raise the matter for discussion with the player and
    his Team. If there is no resolution of the matter within seven days,
                                                                                  j135
then the Team will, upon notification of the Players Association,
suspend the player without pay, wherever legal. Such suspension
will continue until the Players Association has notified the Team in
writing that the suspended player has satisfied his obligation as
contained in Section 1 of this Article XIX. The parties hereby agree
that suspension without pay is adopted as a substitute for and in
lieu of discharge as the penalty for a violation of the union security
clause of the Agreement and that no player will be discharged for a
violation of that clause. A copy of all notices required by this Sec-
tion will be simultaneously mailed to the player involved and the
NBA.
         (b) The term "member in good standing" as used in this
Article XIX applies only to the payment of dues or any initiation
fee and not to any other factors involved in union discipline.
         (c) Other than pursuant to Section 2 above, no Team shall
pay any initiation fees, dues, or equivalent service fee on behalf of
any player.
Section 4.    No Liability.
         Neither the NBA nor any Team shall be liable for any sal-
ary, bonus, or other monetary claims that result from a player be-
ing suspended pursuant to the terms of Section 3 above.